plugins/bitwarden-security-engineer/skills/analyzing-code-security/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: analyzing-code-security
description: Deep security analysis of code against OWASP Top 10, OWASP API Top 10, OWASP Mobile Top 10 2024, CWE Top 25, and SANS Top 25. Use when performing manual security code review or analyzing code for vulnerability patterns beyond what scanners catch.
---

## Frameworks Reference

### OWASP Web Top 10

| #   | Category                  | What to Look For                                                                   |
| --- | ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| A01 | Broken Access Control     | Missing authorization checks, IDOR, path traversal, CORS misconfiguration          |
| A02 | Cryptographic Failures    | Weak algorithms, hardcoded keys, missing encryption, cleartext transmission        |
| A03 | Injection                 | SQL, NoSQL, OS command, LDAP, XPath injection via unsanitized input                |
| A04 | Insecure Design           | Missing threat model, business logic flaws, insufficient rate limiting             |
| A05 | Security Misconfiguration | Default credentials, unnecessary features enabled, verbose errors, missing headers |
| A06 | Vulnerable Components     | Outdated libraries, unpatched dependencies, known CVEs                             |
| A07 | Auth Failures             | Weak passwords, missing brute-force protection, insecure session management        |
| A08 | Data Integrity Failures   | Insecure deserialization, unsigned updates, untrusted CI/CD pipelines              |
| A09 | Logging Failures          | Missing audit logs, sensitive data in logs, no alerting                            |
| A10 | SSRF                      | User-controlled URLs in server-side requests, metadata endpoint access             |

### OWASP API Top 10

| #     | Category                                        | What to Look For                                                         |
| ----- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| API1  | Broken Object Level Authorization               | Missing per-object auth checks, IDOR via API parameters                  |
| API2  | Broken Authentication                           | Weak token generation, missing token validation, insecure password flows |
| API3  | Broken Object Property Level Auth               | Mass assignment, excessive data in responses                             |
| API4  | Unrestricted Resource Consumption               | Missing rate limits, unbounded queries, large payload acceptance         |
| API5  | Broken Function Level Authorization             | Missing role checks on admin endpoints, privilege escalation             |
| API6  | Unrestricted Access to Sensitive Business Flows | No bot protection on critical flows (registration, purchase)             |
| API7  | SSRF                                            | Server-side requests with user-controlled URLs                           |
| API8  | Security Misconfiguration                       | Missing security headers, CORS wildcard, verbose errors                  |
| API9  | Improper Inventory Management                   | Undocumented endpoints, old API versions still active                    |
| API10 | Unsafe Consumption of APIs                      | Trusting third-party API responses without validation                    |

### OWASP Mobile Top 10 (2024)

| #   | Category                         | What to Look For                                             |
| --- | -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| M1  | Improper Credential Usage        | Hardcoded credentials, insecure credential storage on device |
| M2  | Inadequate Supply Chain Security | Unverified third-party SDKs, tampered libraries              |
| M3  | Insecure Auth/Authorization      | Client-side auth bypasses, missing server-side validation    |
| M4  | Insufficient I/O Validation      | Missing input validation, injection via intents/deep links   |
| M5  | Insecure Communication           | Cleartext traffic, certificate pinning bypass, weak TLS      |
| M6  | Inadequate Privacy Controls      | Excessive data collection, missing consent, PII leakage      |
| M7  | Insufficient Binary Protections  | No obfuscation, debuggable builds in production              |
| M8  | Security Misconfiguration        | Excessive permissions, insecure default settings             |
| M9  | Insecure Data Storage            | Sensitive data in plaintext files, shared preferences, logs  |
| M10 | Insufficient Cryptography        | Weak algorithms, improper key management, predictable IVs    |

### CWE Top 25

The most critical software weaknesses. Map findings to these when applicable:

- **CWE-787** Out-of-bounds Write
- **CWE-79** Cross-site Scripting (XSS)
- **CWE-89** SQL Injection
- **CWE-416** Use After Free
- **CWE-78** OS Command Injection
- **CWE-20** Improper Input Validation
- **CWE-125** Out-of-bounds Read
- **CWE-22** Path Traversal
- **CWE-352** Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
- **CWE-434** Unrestricted File Upload
- **CWE-862** Missing Authorization
- **CWE-476** NULL Pointer Dereference
- **CWE-287** Improper Authentication
- **CWE-190** Integer Overflow
- **CWE-502** Deserialization of Untrusted Data
- **CWE-77** Command Injection
- **CWE-119** Buffer Overflow
- **CWE-798** Hardcoded Credentials
- **CWE-918** Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)
- **CWE-306** Missing Authentication for Critical Function

## Language-Specific Vulnerability Patterns

### C# / .NET

```csharp
// WRONG — SQL injection via string concatenation
var query = $"SELECT * FROM Users WHERE Id = '{userId}'";
var result = connection.Execute(query);

// CORRECT — parameterized query
var query = "SELECT * FROM Users WHERE Id = @UserId";
var result = connection.Execute(query, new { UserId = userId });
```

```csharp
// WRONG — insecure deserialization with type handling
JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<object>(input, new JsonSerializerSettings {
    TypeNameHandling = TypeNameHandling.All
});

// CORRECT — no type name handling on untrusted input
JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<ExpectedType>(input);
```

```csharp
// WRONG — path traversal via user input
var filePath = Path.Combine(baseDir, userInput);
var content = File.ReadAllText(filePath);

// CORRECT — canonicalize and validate
var filePath = Path.GetFullPath(Path.Combine(baseDir, userInput));
if (!filePath.StartsWith(Path.GetFullPath(baseDir)))
    throw new UnauthorizedAccessException();
var content = File.ReadAllText(filePath);
```

```csharp
// WRONG — SSRF via user-controlled URL
var response = await httpClient.GetAsync(userProvidedUrl);

// CORRECT — validate against allowlist
var uri = new Uri(userProvidedUrl);
if (!AllowedHosts.Contains(uri.Host))
    throw new ArgumentException("Host not allowed");
var response = await httpClient.GetAsync(uri);
```

```csharp
// WRONG — XXE via default XML settings
var doc = new XmlDocument();
doc.LoadXml(userInput);

// CORRECT — disable DTD and external entities
var doc = new XmlDocument();
doc.XmlResolver = null;
doc.LoadXml(userInput);
```

### TypeScript / Angular

```typescript
// WRONG — XSS via innerHTML
element.innerHTML = userInput;

// CORRECT — use framework text binding
// In Angular templates: {{ userInput }} (auto-escaped)
// Or use DomSanitizer with explicit trust only for known-safe content
```

```typescript
// WRONG — bypassing Angular security without justification
this.sanitizer.bypassSecurityTrustHtml(userInput);

// CORRECT — only bypass for content you fully control
const trustedContent = this.generateSafeHtml(); // no user input
this.sanitizer.bypassSecurityTrustHtml(trustedContent);
```

```typescript
// WRONG — open redirect
window.location.href = params.get("redirect");

// CORRECT — validate redirect target
const redirect = params.get("redirect");
const url = new URL(redirect, window.location.origin);
if (url.origin !== window.location.origin) {
  throw new Error("Invalid redirect");
}
window.location.href = url.toString();
```

```typescript
// WRONG — insecure postMessage (no origin check)
window.addEventListener("message", (event) => {
  processData(event.data);
});

// CORRECT — validate origin
window.addEventListener("message", (event) => {
  if (event.origin !== "https://expected-origin.com") return;
  processData(event.data);
});
```

### SQL

```sql
-- WRONG — dynamic SQL with concatenation
EXECUTE('SELECT * FROM Users WHERE Name = ''' + @Name + '''');

-- CORRECT — parameterized dynamic SQL
EXECUTE sp_executesql N'SELECT * FROM Users WHERE Name = @Name', N'@Name NVARCHAR(100)', @Name = @Name;
```

## Adversarial Review Mindset

Bitwarden encourages adopting an adversarial mindset during security code review — this is different from regular code review which seeks to strengthen code.

**How to think adversarially:**

1. **Create a hypothesis** — e.g., "I can bypass SSO", "I can access another user's vault", "I can escalate from member to admin"
2. **Work backwards** — What conditions would need to be true for the attack to succeed? Can you fabricate those conditions?
3. **Question assumptions** — Is that authorization check always reached? What happens if the middleware fails? What if the token is malformed but not invalid?
4. **Consider failure modes** — What happens when things fail? Do they fail open (insecure) or fail closed (secure)?

## Critical Rules

- **Authentication before authorization.** Always verify the user is who they claim to be before checking what they're allowed to do. Never skip auth checks in "internal" endpoints.
- **Validate at trust boundaries.** Every point where data crosses a trust boundary (client→server, service→service, user input→database) must validate. Never trust client-side validation alone.
- **Map findings to CWE IDs.** Every finding must include a specific CWE identifier with evidence: the code location and the data flow that makes it exploitable.
- **Practical over theoretical.** Distinguish between vulnerabilities that are practically exploitable in this system vs. theoretical risks. Prioritize accordingly but document both.
- **Check the whole chain.** A vulnerability isn't just the sink — trace from the source (user input) through all transformations to the sink (dangerous operation). If the chain is broken by sanitization, it's not exploitable.

## Further Reading

- [OWASP Top Ten](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)
- [OWASP API Security Top 10](https://owasp.org/API-Security/editions/2023/en/0x11-t10/)
- [OWASP Mobile Top 10 2024](https://owasp.org/www-project-mobile-top-10/)
- [CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Weaknesses](https://cwe.mitre.org/top25/archive/2024/2024_cwe_top25.html)
- [OWASP Code Review Guide](https://owasp.org/www-project-code-review-guide/)

Commit message:

Apply skill-development skill from Anthropic

plugins/bitwarden-security-engineer/skills/analyzing-code-security/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: analyzing-code-security
description: This skill should be used when the user asks to "analyze code for security issues", "check for OWASP vulnerabilities", "review code against CWE Top 25", "find injection vulnerabilities", "do a security code review", or needs manual security analysis against OWASP Top 10, API Top 10, Mobile Top 10, or CWE/SANS frameworks.
---

## Frameworks Reference

### OWASP Web Top 10

| #   | Category                  | What to Look For                                                                   |
| --- | ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| A01 | Broken Access Control     | Missing authorization checks, IDOR, path traversal, CORS misconfiguration          |
| A02 | Cryptographic Failures    | Weak algorithms, hardcoded keys, missing encryption, cleartext transmission        |
| A03 | Injection                 | SQL, NoSQL, OS command, LDAP, XPath injection via unsanitized input                |
| A04 | Insecure Design           | Missing threat model, business logic flaws, insufficient rate limiting             |
| A05 | Security Misconfiguration | Default credentials, unnecessary features enabled, verbose errors, missing headers |
| A06 | Vulnerable Components     | Outdated libraries, unpatched dependencies, known CVEs                             |
| A07 | Auth Failures             | Weak passwords, missing brute-force protection, insecure session management        |
| A08 | Data Integrity Failures   | Insecure deserialization, unsigned updates, untrusted CI/CD pipelines              |
| A09 | Logging Failures          | Missing audit logs, sensitive data in logs, no alerting                            |
| A10 | SSRF                      | User-controlled URLs in server-side requests, metadata endpoint access             |

### OWASP API Top 10

| #     | Category                                        | What to Look For                                                         |
| ----- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| API1  | Broken Object Level Authorization               | Missing per-object auth checks, IDOR via API parameters                  |
| API2  | Broken Authentication                           | Weak token generation, missing token validation, insecure password flows |
| API3  | Broken Object Property Level Auth               | Mass assignment, excessive data in responses                             |
| API4  | Unrestricted Resource Consumption               | Missing rate limits, unbounded queries, large payload acceptance         |
| API5  | Broken Function Level Authorization             | Missing role checks on admin endpoints, privilege escalation             |
| API6  | Unrestricted Access to Sensitive Business Flows | No bot protection on critical flows (registration, purchase)             |
| API7  | SSRF                                            | Server-side requests with user-controlled URLs                           |
| API8  | Security Misconfiguration                       | Missing security headers, CORS wildcard, verbose errors                  |
| API9  | Improper Inventory Management                   | Undocumented endpoints, old API versions still active                    |
| API10 | Unsafe Consumption of APIs                      | Trusting third-party API responses without validation                    |

### OWASP Mobile Top 10 (2024)

| #   | Category                         | What to Look For                                             |
| --- | -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| M1  | Improper Credential Usage        | Hardcoded credentials, insecure credential storage on device |
| M2  | Inadequate Supply Chain Security | Unverified third-party SDKs, tampered libraries              |
| M3  | Insecure Auth/Authorization      | Client-side auth bypasses, missing server-side validation    |
| M4  | Insufficient I/O Validation      | Missing input validation, injection via intents/deep links   |
| M5  | Insecure Communication           | Cleartext traffic, certificate pinning bypass, weak TLS      |
| M6  | Inadequate Privacy Controls      | Excessive data collection, missing consent, PII leakage      |
| M7  | Insufficient Binary Protections  | No obfuscation, debuggable builds in production              |
| M8  | Security Misconfiguration        | Excessive permissions, insecure default settings             |
| M9  | Insecure Data Storage            | Sensitive data in plaintext files, shared preferences, logs  |
| M10 | Insufficient Cryptography        | Weak algorithms, improper key management, predictable IVs    |

### CWE Top 25

The most critical software weaknesses. Map findings to these when applicable:

- **CWE-787** Out-of-bounds Write
- **CWE-79** Cross-site Scripting (XSS)
- **CWE-89** SQL Injection
- **CWE-416** Use After Free
- **CWE-78** OS Command Injection
- **CWE-20** Improper Input Validation
- **CWE-125** Out-of-bounds Read
- **CWE-22** Path Traversal
- **CWE-352** Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)
- **CWE-434** Unrestricted File Upload
- **CWE-862** Missing Authorization
- **CWE-476** NULL Pointer Dereference
- **CWE-287** Improper Authentication
- **CWE-190** Integer Overflow
- **CWE-502** Deserialization of Untrusted Data
- **CWE-77** Command Injection
- **CWE-119** Buffer Overflow
- **CWE-798** Hardcoded Credentials
- **CWE-918** Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF)
- **CWE-306** Missing Authentication for Critical Function

## Language-Specific Vulnerability Patterns

### C# / .NET

```csharp
// WRONG — SQL injection via string concatenation
var query = $"SELECT * FROM Users WHERE Id = '{userId}'";
var result = connection.Execute(query);

// CORRECT — parameterized query
var query = "SELECT * FROM Users WHERE Id = @UserId";
var result = connection.Execute(query, new { UserId = userId });
```

```csharp
// WRONG — insecure deserialization with type handling
JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<object>(input, new JsonSerializerSettings {
    TypeNameHandling = TypeNameHandling.All
});

// CORRECT — no type name handling on untrusted input
JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<ExpectedType>(input);
```

```csharp
// WRONG — path traversal via user input
var filePath = Path.Combine(baseDir, userInput);
var content = File.ReadAllText(filePath);

// CORRECT — canonicalize and validate
var filePath = Path.GetFullPath(Path.Combine(baseDir, userInput));
if (!filePath.StartsWith(Path.GetFullPath(baseDir)))
    throw new UnauthorizedAccessException();
var content = File.ReadAllText(filePath);
```

```csharp
// WRONG — SSRF via user-controlled URL
var response = await httpClient.GetAsync(userProvidedUrl);

// CORRECT — validate against allowlist
var uri = new Uri(userProvidedUrl);
if (!AllowedHosts.Contains(uri.Host))
    throw new ArgumentException("Host not allowed");
var response = await httpClient.GetAsync(uri);
```

```csharp
// WRONG — XXE via default XML settings
var doc = new XmlDocument();
doc.LoadXml(userInput);

// CORRECT — disable DTD and external entities
var doc = new XmlDocument();
doc.XmlResolver = null;
doc.LoadXml(userInput);
```

### TypeScript / Angular

```typescript
// WRONG — XSS via innerHTML
element.innerHTML = userInput;

// CORRECT — use framework text binding
// In Angular templates: {{ userInput }} (auto-escaped)
// Or use DomSanitizer with explicit trust only for known-safe content
```

```typescript
// WRONG — bypassing Angular security without justification
this.sanitizer.bypassSecurityTrustHtml(userInput);

// CORRECT — only bypass for content you fully control
const trustedContent = this.generateSafeHtml(); // no user input
this.sanitizer.bypassSecurityTrustHtml(trustedContent);
```

```typescript
// WRONG — open redirect
window.location.href = params.get("redirect");

// CORRECT — validate redirect target
const redirect = params.get("redirect");
const url = new URL(redirect, window.location.origin);
if (url.origin !== window.location.origin) {
  throw new Error("Invalid redirect");
}
window.location.href = url.toString();
```

```typescript
// WRONG — insecure postMessage (no origin check)
window.addEventListener("message", (event) => {
  processData(event.data);
});

// CORRECT — validate origin
window.addEventListener("message", (event) => {
  if (event.origin !== "https://expected-origin.com") return;
  processData(event.data);
});
```

### SQL

```sql
-- WRONG — dynamic SQL with concatenation
EXECUTE('SELECT * FROM Users WHERE Name = ''' + @Name + '''');

-- CORRECT — parameterized dynamic SQL
EXECUTE sp_executesql N'SELECT * FROM Users WHERE Name = @Name', N'@Name NVARCHAR(100)', @Name = @Name;
```

## Adversarial Review Mindset

Bitwarden encourages adopting an adversarial mindset during security code review — this is different from regular code review which seeks to strengthen code.

**How to think adversarially:**

1. **Create a hypothesis** — e.g., "I can bypass SSO", "I can access another user's vault", "I can escalate from member to admin"
2. **Work backwards** — What conditions would need to be true for the attack to succeed? Can those conditions be fabricated?
3. **Question assumptions** — Is that authorization check always reached? What happens if the middleware fails? What if the token is malformed but not invalid?
4. **Consider failure modes** — What happens when things fail? Do they fail open (insecure) or fail closed (secure)?

## Critical Rules

- **Authentication before authorization.** Always verify the user is who they claim to be before checking what they're allowed to do. Never skip auth checks in "internal" endpoints.
- **Validate at trust boundaries.** Every point where data crosses a trust boundary (client→server, service→service, user input→database) must validate. Never trust client-side validation alone.
- **Map findings to CWE IDs.** Every finding must include a specific CWE identifier with evidence: the code location and the data flow that makes it exploitable.
- **Practical over theoretical.** Distinguish between vulnerabilities that are practically exploitable in this system vs. theoretical risks. Prioritize accordingly but document both.
- **Check the whole chain.** A vulnerability isn't just the sink — trace from the source (user input) through all transformations to the sink (dangerous operation). If the chain is broken by sanitization, it's not exploitable.

## Further Reading

- [OWASP Top Ten](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)
- [OWASP API Security Top 10](https://owasp.org/API-Security/editions/2023/en/0x11-t10/)
- [OWASP Mobile Top 10 2024](https://owasp.org/www-project-mobile-top-10/)
- [CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Weaknesses](https://cwe.mitre.org/top25/archive/2024/2024_cwe_top25.html)
- [OWASP Code Review Guide](https://owasp.org/www-project-code-review-guide/)
